# Tests and git hooks

Untested softare is buggy software, tested software is less buggy software. Tests are crucial in ensuring a program behaves as expected, writing programs without tests is a great way to introduce faults. Tests should also be self contained and limited in scope in that they only test one behaviour and are not influenced by external factors. Ideally a test should read like english so that a developer can quickly glance at a set of tests and figure out what a test is testing, e.g "should increment quantity" makes it clear that the test is checking the qualtity of a product is incremented (LO 1.1.3.5).

A very simple approach to maintain the quality of a project is to ensure a series of tests pass before any code can be commited. In this example repository I use a package called Husky to manage my git hooks which will run before different git commands, e.g pre-commit runs before a commit, pre-push runs before code is pushed. It is configured such that my tests must all pass in order to push and while this works, it could easily be bypassed by the developer. It is therefore more common and best practice to setup build pipeline (as I have done in team projects) which get triggered when a code is pushed to a remote repository and can be configured to perform tests or anything in a controlled environment. The benefit of a simple git hook is that they are dead simple to setup and because they are run locally there is no expense associated with setting up and managing a build pipeline. If you are working on larger projects with a big team of developers a build pipeline is the best solution as it ensures every push is subject to the same tests and checking and can be configured to provide additional functionality such as deploying builds (LO 1.2.1.4).
